replace Extractor with h5py reader (#169)
GNS-Science/toshi-hazard-store: docs/h5py_extractor_migration.md

| `sm_data` | compound `(name, weight, path, samples)` | `path` = sm_lt_path; `samples` = number of realizations for this source model. |

Realizations are reconstructed by iterating `sm_data` and for each source model, iterating the next `samples` rows of `gsim_lt` in declaration order. This matches OQ's enumeration for `number_of_logic_tree_samples = 0`.

### `hcurves-rlzs`

Shape `(n_sites, n_rlz, n_imts, n_levels)`. Carries a `json` attribute whose `shape_descr` lists axis names; the `imt` key gives ordered IMT names.

### `disagg-rlzs/<kind>`

Shape `(n_sites, <kind_axes>, n_imt, n_poe, n_rlz)` where `<kind_axes>` expands the underscore-separated kind name (e.g. `TRT_Mag_Dist_Eps` → `trt, mag, dist, eps`). No `json` attribute — axes are inferred from the kind string.

`disagg-bins/{Axis}` contains bin edges (numeric axes) or labels (TRT). The reader computes bin centres as `(edges[:-1] + edges[1:]) / 2`.

The rlz axis ordering follows `best_rlzs[site_idx]` — an integer array giving the ordinal of each rlz in the disagg result in descending-weight order.

## Cross-version fixture matrix

### Generating fixtures

> A developer may want to generate new fixtures when either new functionality is added to `OqHdf5Reader` that reads features not present in the existing fixtures or they want to support new versions of OpenQuake.

Reviewer: I still don't know what a fixture is. Is this a test fixture? Is this an environment for creating tests? Is this an environment for reading files in production?

# OpenQuake h5py Extractor

We use our own extractor to obtain data from OpenQuake hdf5 files, rather than using the `openquake.calculators.extract.Extractor`

> `openquake.calculators.extract.Extractor` drifts between OQ minor versions. A

Reviewer: feels like there are some words missing between the end of this line and the beginning of the next

Author: reads OK to me

Reviewer 2: "versions. A\n the " is a bit weird @chrisdicaprio

minor release could silently break the extraction code.

The OQ HDF5 **file** layout is more stable. We replaced the Extractor with direct h5py
reads, dropped `openquake-engine` as a dependency entirely, and validated the new reader against
a fixture matrix generated by docker-based OQ runs across seven minor releases.

## `OqHdf5Reader` class

`toshi_hazard_store/oq_import/h5py_reader.py` — an `OqHdf5Reader` class that wraps an HDF5
file and exposes exactly the data the extraction code needs:

| Method | HDF5 path(s) | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| `oqparam()` | `oqparam[()]` | JSON blob decoded to dict |
| `sitecol()` | `sitecol/{sids,lat,lon,...}` | Parallel 1-D arrays → DataFrame |
| `hcurves_rlzs()` | `hcurves-rlzs` | Returns `{rlz-N: arr(sites, imts, levels)}` |
| `gsim_branches()` | `full_lt/gsim_lt` | `{branch_id: uncertainty_str}` |
| `source_branches()` | `full_lt/source_model_lt` | `{idx: sm_lt_path_str}` (values used as source_map keys) |
| `realizations()` | `full_lt/sm_data` + `full_lt/gsim_lt` | List of `_RlzRecord(source_path, gsim_path, ordinal)` |
| `disagg_rlzs(kind, ...)` | `disagg-rlzs/<kind>`, `disagg-bins/*`, `best_rlzs` | Returns a `_DisaggExtract` proxy |

> The class is tested against fixtures generated by OQ 3.19.1–3.25.1. It is also tested againt the 3.25.1 `openquake.calculators.extract.Extractor` for strucutre and numerical equivalence. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The class is tested against fixtures generated by OQ 3.19.1–3.25.1. It is also tested against the 3.25.1 `openquake.calculators.extract.Extractor` for structural and numerical equivalence. 
```

| `sm_data` | compound `(name, weight, path, samples)` | `path` = sm_lt_path; `samples` = number of realizations for this source model. |

Realizations are reconstructed by iterating `sm_data` and for each source model, iterating the
next `samples` rows of `gsim_lt` in declaration order. This matches OQ's enumeration for
`number_of_logic_tree_samples = 0`.

### `hcurves-rlzs`

Shape `(n_sites, n_rlz, n_imts, n_levels)`. Carries a `json` attribute whose `shape_descr`
lists axis names; the `imt` key gives ordered IMT names.

### `disagg-rlzs/<kind>`

Shape `(n_sites, <kind_axes>, n_imt, n_poe, n_rlz)` where `<kind_axes>` expands the
underscore-separated kind name (e.g. `TRT_Mag_Dist_Eps` → `trt, mag, dist, eps`). No
`json` attribute — axes are inferred from the kind string.

`disagg-bins/{Axis}` contains bin edges (numeric axes) or labels (TRT). The reader computes
bin centres as `(edges[:-1] + edges[1:]) / 2`.

The rlz axis ordering follows `best_rlzs[site_idx]` — an integer array giving the ordinal
of each rlz in the disagg result in descending-weight order.

> ## Cross-version fixture matrix

Reviewer: a brief description of what this is and what it's for would be good

> ### Generating fixtures

Reviewer: consider added a brief description of when someone might want to do this

Reviewer 2: @chrisdicaprio I'd also like a bit of explanation about the overall strategy here.

It looks like the regen script is driving docker and automating oq jobs using versions released in containers? What are the outputs (new tests) and inputs (the input folder??). Is the idea to build HDF5 files from the inputs, that can be used in test fixtures?

Perhaps a README in this scripts folder would suffice?

Author: From the docs:

> This will:
> 1. Pull `openquake/engine:<ver>` for each version in `OQ_VERSIONS`.
> 2. ...
> 3. Run `oq engine --run /job/job_{classical,disagg}.ini` inside the container.
> 4. Use `docker cp` (host-side) to pull the resulting `calc_*.hdf5` out of the
>    stopped container — avoids all container-side write-permission issues.
> 5. Write `tests/fixtures/oq_cross_version/{classical,disaggregation}/oq_<ver>/calc.hdf5`
>    alongside a `manifest.json` recording the image digest, generation timestamp
>    and file checksum.
> 6. ...
